Lesson: Annotations (The Java™ Tutorials > Learning the Java Language)
A browser with JavaScript enabled is required for this page to operate properly.
Documentation
The Java™ Tutorials
Hide TOC
Annotations
Annotations Basics
Declaring an Annotation Type
Predefined Annotation Types
Type Annotations and Pluggable Type Systems
Repeating Annotations
Questions and Exercises
Trail:
Learning the Java Language
Home Page
>
Learning the Java Language
« Previous
•
Trail
•
Next »
The Java Tutorials have been written for JDK 8. Examples and practices described in this page don't take advantage of improvements introduced in later releases and might use technology no longer available.
See
Dev.java
for updated tutorials taking advantage of the latest releases.
See
Java Language Changes
for a summary of updated language features in Java SE 9 and subsequent releases.
See
JDK Release Notes
for information about new features, enhancements, and removed or deprecated options for all JDK releases.
Lesson: Annotations
Annotations
, a form of metadata, provide data about a program that is not part of the program itself. Annotations have no direct effect on the operation of the code they annotate.
Annotations have a number of uses, among them:
Information for the compiler
— Annotations can be used by the compiler to detect errors or suppress warnings.
Compile-time and deployment-time processing
— Software tools can process annotation information to generate code, XML files, and so forth.
Runtime processing
— Some annotations are available to be examined at runtime.
This lesson explains where annotations can be used, how to apply annotations, what predefined annotation types are available in the Java Platform, Standard Edition (Java SE API), how type annotations can be used in conjunction with pluggable type systems to write code with stronger type checking, and how to implement repeating annotations.
« Previous
•
Trail
•
Next »
About Oracle
|
Contact Us
|
Legal Notices
|
Terms of Use
|
Your Privacy Rights
Copyright © 1995, 2024 Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
Previous page:
Previous Lesson
Next page:
Annotations Basics